# Interactive Asset Management
**A tool for capital asset management in the transportation industry**

Organizations of all types need to maintain the facilities and assets that are the key to providing services to their clients and patrons given a limited amount of money and resources.  Proactive maintenance of these resources requires the user to consider the various maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement options versus the cost of these options, the proper timing of the options, the benefit of the options, current asset condition, expected future asset condition, and the availability of resources to perform the work (money, time, etc.).  While this is not difficult for a small organization (a person's home, for example), some organizations are responsible for tens of thousands of assets.  iAM is an analysis tool that allows its users to provide current condition data and specify a variety of maintenance parameters and get a list of optimized projects in return.  The actual optimization routine is currently based on highest benefit-cost ratio.

## History of iAM
The tool contained in this repository has been developed over the last 30 years to manage pavements owned by a country, state, province, county, city, maintenance contractor, developer, or any other agency that is responsible for maintaining roadways.  Since the principles of asset management are somewhat universal (proactive, optimized management for large, expensive items that have various maintenance options), the tool was expanded to manage assets at a generic level.  The original software project that this system is based on is a client-server system with a relational database backend.

## iAM Vision
Since the management of assets, especially for a transportation agency, is a multi-user affair, this project will transfer the client-server software into a web services package with an HTML-based user interface.  It will also reformat the parameters provided by the user (performance prediction, available treatments, etc.) into a format that is more multi-user friendly.
